alan mathison turing was an english mathematician, computer scientist, logician, cryptanalyst, philosopher and theoretical biologist. he was highly influential in the development of theoretical computer science, providing a formalisation of the concepts of algorithm and computation with the turing machine, which can be considered a model of a general purpose computer. turing is widely considered to be the father of theoretical computer science. born in london, turing was raised in southern england. he graduated from kings college, cambridge, earned a doctorate degree from princeton university. turing worked for the government code and cypher school at bletchley park, britains codebreaking centre that produced ultra intelligence. he led hut, the section responsible for german naval cryptanalysis. turing devised techniques for speeding the breaking of german ciphers, including improvements to the prewar polish bomba method, an electromechanical machine that could find settings for the enigma machine. he played a crucial role in cracking intercepted messages that enabled the allies to defeat the axis powers in the battle of the atlantic and other engagements. after the war, turing worked at the national physical laboratory, where he designed the automatic computing engine, one of the first designs for a stored program computer. turing wrote on the chemical basis of morphogenesisand predicted oscillating chemical reactions such as the zhabotinsky reaction. despite these accomplishments, he was never fully recognised during his lifetime because much of his work was covered by the official secrets act. turing was prosecuted for homosexual acts. he accepted hormone treatment, a procedure commonly referred to as chemical castration, as an alternative to prison. an inquest determined his death as suicide, but the evidence is also consistent with accidental poisoning. following a campaign, british prime minister gordon brown made an official public apology for the appalling way was treated. turing left an extensive legacy in mathematics and computing which has become widely recognised with statues and many things named after him, including an annual award for computing innovation. his portrait appears on the bank of england note.
